frontend/frontend/docs/bug-fix-log.md, before:

<!-- # 🐞 Debug Log: "Orders Not Showing After Payment"

## ❗ Problem Summary

After successfully completing payment and being redirected to `/orders/me`, the page displayed:

- "No orders found"
- Or a 400 error: "Resource not found. Invalid:\_id"

Despite the user being logged in, orders were not fetched or displayed correctly.

---

## 🔍 Root Causes Identified

1. **Incorrect API Endpoint in `orderApi.js`**

   ```js
   url: "/api/v1/orders/me."; // ❌ extra period
   ```

   - This misrouted the call and was interpreted as `/orders/:id`.

2. **Token Not Sent Properly in Headers**

   - Token was available in Redux but not attached to outgoing requests correctly.

3. **Backend `isAuthenticatedUser` Only Read Cookies**

   - The middleware wasn't checking `Authorization` headers.

4. **No Console Logs from Backend**

   - Developer added `console.log("📥 User ID from req.user:", req.user?._id)` but it never triggered due to failed routing.

5. **RTK Query Misconfiguration**
   - `prepareHeaders` was not applied, so token wasn’t attached.

---

## ✅ Fixes Implemented

### ✅ 1. Fixed `orderApi.js` Endpoint

```js
getMyOrders: builder.query({
  query: () => ({
    url: "/orders/me", // ✅ Corrected endpoint
  }),
}),
```

### ✅ 2. Ensure Authorization Header is Sent

```js
prepareHeaders: (headers, { getState }) => {
  const token = getState().auth.token;
  if (token) headers.set("authorization", `Bearer ${token}`);
  return headers;
},
```

### ✅ 3. Updated Backend Middleware

In `isAuthenticatedUser`:

```js
const token =
  req.cookies.token || req.header("Authorization")?.replace("Bearer ", "");
```

### ✅ 4. Verified with Console Logs

```js
console.log("📥 User ID from req.user:", req.user?._id, typeof req.user?._id);
```

---

## 💡 Lessons Learned

- Double-check **endpoint URLs** — even a `.` can break things
- Confirm **token handling** on both client and server
- Use `console.log()` strategically in the backend
- RTK Query **doesn’t attach headers automatically** — `prepareHeaders` is critical
- Test protected routes with correct headers AND cookies if needed

---

## 🛠️ Future Improvements

- Add better toast error messages for failed requests
- Show status codes in toast for easier debugging
- Auto-log users out on token expiration

---

## 🧰 Backed Up

Branch: `fix/orders-working-version`

---

## 🚀 Final Result

- Orders now display after successful payment
- Auth state persists after refresh
- Protected routes function correctly

👏 Victory after 4 days of debugging! -->

Commit message:

Adding bug-fix-log - fix: orders now show after payment — fixed endpoint, headers, and backend token check

frontend/frontend/docs/bug-fix-log.md, after:

# 🐞 Debug Log: "Orders Not Showing After Payment"

## ❗ Problem Summary

After successfully completing payment and being redirected to `/orders/me`, the page displayed:

- "No orders found"
- Or a 400 error: "Resource not found. Invalid:\_id"

Despite the user being logged in, orders were not fetched or displayed correctly.

---

## 🔍 Root Causes Identified

1. **Incorrect API Endpoint in `orderApi.js`**

   ```js
   url: "/api/v1/orders/me."; // ❌ extra period
   ```

   - This misrouted the call and was interpreted as `/orders/:id`.

2. **Token Not Sent Properly in Headers**

   - Token was available in Redux but not attached to outgoing requests correctly.

3. **Backend `isAuthenticatedUser` Only Read Cookies**

   - The middleware wasn't checking `Authorization` headers.

4. **No Console Logs from Backend**

   - Developer added `console.log("📥 User ID from req.user:", req.user?._id)` but it never triggered due to failed routing.

5. **RTK Query Misconfiguration**
   - `prepareHeaders` was not applied, so token wasn’t attached.

---

## ✅ Fixes Implemented

### ✅ 1. Fixed `orderApi.js` Endpoint

```js
getMyOrders: builder.query({
  query: () => ({
    url: "/orders/me", // ✅ Corrected endpoint
  }),
}),
```

### ✅ 2. Ensure Authorization Header is Sent

```js
prepareHeaders: (headers, { getState }) => {
  const token = getState().auth.token;
  if (token) headers.set("authorization", `Bearer ${token}`);
  return headers;
},
```

### ✅ 3. Updated Backend Middleware

In `isAuthenticatedUser`:

```js
const token =
  req.cookies.token || req.header("Authorization")?.replace("Bearer ", "");
```

### ✅ 4. Verified with Console Logs

```js
console.log("📥 User ID from req.user:", req.user?._id, typeof req.user?._id);
```

---

## 💡 Lessons Learned

- Double-check **endpoint URLs** — even a `.` can break things
- Confirm **token handling** on both client and server
- Use `console.log()` strategically in the backend
- RTK Query **doesn’t attach headers automatically** — `prepareHeaders` is critical
- Test protected routes with correct headers AND cookies if needed

---

## 🛠️ Future Improvements

- Add better toast error messages for failed requests
- Show status codes in toast for easier debugging
- Auto-log users out on token expiration

---

## 🧰 Backed Up

Branch: `fix/orders-working-version`

---

## 🚀 Final Result

- Orders now display after successful payment
- Auth state persists after refresh
- Protected routes function correctly

👏 Victory after 4 days of debugging!
